federalist 53
the same subject continued
the house of representatives from the
new york packet
tuesday february 12 1788
hamilton or madison
to the people of the state of new york
i shall hear perhaps be reminded of a
current observation that where annual
elections end tyranny begins
if it be true as has often been remarked
that sayings which become proverbial are
generally founded in reason it is not
less true that when once established
they are often applied to cases to which
the reason of them does not extend
i need not look for a proof beyond the
case before us
what is the reason on which this
proverbial observation is founded
no man will subject himself to the
ridicule of pretending that any natural
connection subsists between the sun or
the seasons and the period within which
human virtue can bear the temptations of
power happily for mankind liberty is not
in this respect confined to any single
point of time but lies within extremes
which afford sufficient latitude for all
the variations which may be required by
the various situations and circumstances
of civil society
the election of magistrates might be if
it were found expedient as in some
instances it actually has been daily
weekly or monthly as well as annual and
if circumstances may require a deviation
from the rule on one side why not also
on the other side
turning our attention to the periods
established among ourselves for the
election of the most numerous branches
of the state legislatures we find them
by no means coinciding any more in this
instance than in the elections of other
civil magistrates
in connecticut and rhode island the
periods are half-yearly
in the other states south carolina
accepted their annual in south carolina
they are biennial as is proposed in the
federal government
here is a difference as four to one
between the longest and shortest periods
and yet it would be not easy to show
that connecticut or rhode island is
better governed or enjoys a greater
share of rational liberty than south
carolina or that either the one or the
other of these states is distinguished
in these respects and by these causes
from the states whose elections are
different from both
in searching for the grounds of this
doctrine i can discover but one and that
is wholly inapplicable to our case the
important distinction so well understood
in america between a constitution
established by the people and
unalterable by the government and a law
established by the government and
alterable by the government seems to
have been little understood and less
observed in any other country
wherever the supreme power of
legislation has resided has been
supposed to reside also a full power to
change the form of the government
even in great britain where the
principles of political and civil
liberty have been most discussed and
where we hear most of the rights of the
constitution it is maintained that the
authority of the parliament is
transcendent and uncontrollable as well
with regard to the constitution as the
ordinary objects of legislative
provision they have accordingly in
several instances actually changed by
legislative acts some of the most
fundamental articles of the government
they have in particular on several
occasions changed the period of election
and on the last occasion not only
introduced ceptinial in place of
triennial elections but by the same act
continued themselves in place four years
beyond the term for which they were
elected by the people
an attention to these dangerous
practices has produced a very natural
alarm in the voteries of free government
of which frequency of elections is the
cornerstone and has led them to seek for
some security to liberty against the
danger to which it is exposed where no
constitution paramount to the government
either existed or could be obtained no
constitutional security similar to that
established in the united states was to
be attempted
some other security therefore was to be
sought for and what better security
would the case admit than that of
selecting and appealing to some simple
and familiar portion of time as a
standard for measuring the danger of
innovations for fixing the national
sentiment and for uniting the patriotic
exertions
the most simple and familiar portion of
time applicable to the subject was that
of a year and hence the doctrine has
been inculcated by a laudable zeal to
erect some barrier against the gradual
innovations of an unlimited government
that the advance towards tyranny was to
be calculated by the distance of
departure from the fixed point of annual
elections
but what necessity can there be of
applying this expedient to a government
limited as the federal government will
be by the authority of a paramount
constitution or who will pretend that
the liberties of the people of america
will not be more secure under biennial
elections unalterably fixed by such a
constitution than those of any other
nation would be where elections were
annual or even more frequent but subject
to alterations by the ordinary power of
the government
the second question stated is whether
biennial elections be necessary or
useful
the propriety of answering this question
in the affirmative will appear from
several very obvious considerations
no man can be a competent legislator who
does not add to an upright intention and
a sound judgment a certain degree of
knowledge of the subjects on which he is
to legislate
a part of this knowledge may be acquired
by means of information which lie within
the compass of men in private as well as
public stations
another part can only be attained or at
least thoroughly attained by actual
experience in the station which requires
the use of it
the period of service ought therefore in
all such cases to bear some proportion
to the extent of practical knowledge
requisite to the due performance of the
service
the period of legislative service
established in most of the states for
the more numerous branch is as we have
seen one year
the question then may be put in this
simple form does the period of two years
bear no greater proportion to the
knowledge requisite for federal
legislation than one year does to the
knowledge requisite for state
legislation
the very statement of the question in
this form suggests the answer that ought
to be given to it
in a single state the requisite
knowledge relates to the existing laws
which are uniformed throughout the state
and with which all the citizens are more
or less conversant and to the general
affairs of the state which lie within a
small compass are not very diversified
and occupy much of the attention and
conversation of every class of people
the great theater of the united states
presents a very different scene the laws
are so far from being uniform that they
vary in every state whilst the public
affairs of the union are spread
throughout a very extensive region and
are extremely diversified by the local
affairs connected with them and can with
difficulty be correctly learned in any
other place than in central councils to
which a knowledge of them will be
brought by the representatives of every
part of the empire
yet some knowledge of the affairs and
even of the laws of all the states ought
to be possessed by the members from each
of the states how can foreign trade be
properly regulated by uniform laws
without some acquaintance with the
commerce the ports the usages and the
regulations of the different states
how can the trade between the different
states be duly regulated without some
knowledge of their relative situations
in these and other respects
how can taxes be judiciously imposed and
effectually collected if they be not
accommodated to the different laws and
local circumstances relating to these
objects in the different states
how can uniform regulations for the
militia be duly provided without a
similar knowledge of many internal
circumstances by which the states are
distinguished from each other
these are the principal objections of
federal legislation and suggest most
forcibly the extensive information which
the representatives ought to acquire
the other interior objects will require
a proportional degree of information
with regard to them
it is true that all these difficulties
will by degrees be very much diminished
the most laborious task will be the
proper inauguration of the government
and the primeval formation of a federal
code improvements on the first drafts
will every year become both easier and
fewer past transactions of the
government will be a ready and accurate
source of information to new members the
affairs of the union will become more
and more objects of curiosity and
conversation among the citizens at large
and the increased intercourse among
those of different states will
contribute not a little to diffuse a
mutual knowledge of their affairs as
this again will contribute to a general
assimilation of their manners and laws
but with all these abatements the
business of federal legislation must
continue so far to exceed both in
novelty and difficulty the legislative
business of a single state as to justify
the longer period of service assigned to
those who are to transact it
a branch of knowledge which belongs to
the acquirements of a federal
representative and which has not been
mentioned is that of foreign affairs
in regulating our own commerce he ought
to be not only acquainted with the
treaties between the united states and
other nations but also with the
commercial policy and laws of other
nations
he ought not to be altogether ignorant
of the law of nations for that as far as
it is a proper object of municipal
legislation is submitted to the federal
government
and although the house of
representatives is not immediately to
participate in foreign negotiations and
arrangements yet from the necessary
connection between the several branches
of public affairs those particular
branches will frequently deserve
attention in the ordinary course of
legislation and will sometimes demand
particular legislative sanction and
cooperation
some portion of this knowledge may no
doubt be acquired in a man's closet but
some of it also can only be derived from
the public sources of information and
all of it will be acquired's best effect
by a practical attention to the subject
during the period of actual service in
the legislature
there are other considerations of less
importance perhaps but which are not
unworthy of notice
the distance which many of the
representatives will be obliged to
travel and the arrangements rendered
necessary by that circumstance might be
much more serious objections with fit
men to this service if limited to a
single year than if extended to two
years
no argument can be drawn on this subject
from the case of the delegates to the
existing congress they are elected
annually it is true but their
re-election is considered by the
legislative assemblies almost as a
matter of course the election of the
representatives by the people would not
be governed by the same principle a few
of the members as happens in all such
assemblies will possess superior talents
will by frequent re-elections become
members of long-standing will be
thoroughly masters of the public
business and perhaps not unwilling to
avail themselves of those advantages
the greater the proportion of new
members and the less the information of
the bulk of the members the more apt
there will be to fall into the snares
that may be laid for them this remark is
no less applicable to the relation which
will subsist between the house of
representatives and the senate
it is an inconvenience mingled with the
advantages of our frequent elections
even in single states where they are
large and hold but one legislative
session in a year that spurious
elections cannot be investigated and
annulled in time for the decision to
have its to effect
if a return can be obtained no matter by
what unlawful means the irregular member
who takes his seat of course is sure of
holding it a sufficient time to answer
his purposes
hence a very pernicious encouragement is
given to the use of unlawful means for
obtaining irregular returns
or elections for the federal legislature
to be annual this practice might become
a very serious abuse particularly in the
more distant states
each house is as it necessarily must be
the judge of the elections
qualifications and returns of its
members and whatever improvements may be
suggested by experience for simplifying
and accelerating the process in disputed
cases so great a portion of a year would
unavoidably elapse before an
illegitimate member could be
dispossessed of his seed that the
prospect of such an event would be
little check to unfair and illicit means
of obtaining a seat
all these considerations taken together
warrant us in affirming that biennial
elections will be as useful to the
affairs of the public as we have seen
that they will be safe to the liberty of
the people
publius